
  IT SEEMS strange to me that a man who, as a soldier, was for six years accustomed
  to blind obedience, should suddenly come into conflict with the State and
  its Constitution. The reasons for this stem from the days of my youth. When
  I was seventeen I came to Vienna, and there I learned to study and observe
  three important problems: the social question, the race problem, and, finally,
  the Marxist movement. I left Vienna a confirmed anti-Semite, a deadly foe
  of the whole Marxist world outlook, and pan-German in my political principles.
  And since I knew that the German destiny of German-Austria would not be fought
  out in the Austrian Army alone, but in the German and Austrian Army, I enlisted
  in the German Army....
  
  When, on November 7, [1918] it was announced that the Revolution had broken
  out in Munich, I at first could not believe it. At that time there arose
  in me the determination to devote myself to politics. I went through the
  period of the Soviets, and as a result of my opposition to them I came in
  contact with the National Socialist German Workers Movement, which at that
  time numbered six members. I was the seventh. I attached myself to this party,
  and not to one of the great political parties where my prospects would have
  been better, because none of the other parties understood or even recognized
  the decisive, fundamental problem.
  
  By Marxism I understand a doctrine which in principle rejects the idea of
  the worth of personality, which replaces individual energy by the masses
  and thereby works the destruction of our whole cultural life. This movement
  has utilized monstrously effective methods and exercised tremendous influence
  on the masses, which in the course of three or four decades could have no
  other result than that the individual has become his own brother's foe, while
  at the same time calling a Frenchman, an Englishman, or a Zulu his brother.
  This movement is distinguished by incredible terror, which is based on a
  knowledge of mass psychology....
  
  The German Revolution is a revolution, and therefore successful high treason;
  it is well known that such treason is never punished....
  
  For us it was a filthy crime against the German people, a stab in the back
  of the German nation. The middle class could not take up arms against it
  because the middle class did not understand the whole revolution. It was
  necessary to start a new struggle and to incite against the Marxist despoilers
  of the people who did not even belong to the German race - which is where
  the Marxist problem is linked with the race problem, forming one of the most
  difficult and profound questions of our time....
  
  Personally, at the beginning I held a lost position. Nevertheless, in the
  course of a few years there has grown from a little band of six men a movement
  which today embraces millions and which, above all, has once made the broad
  masses nationalistic....
  
  In 1923 came the great and bitter scandal. As early as 1922 we had seen that
  the Ruhr was about to be lost. France's aim was not merely to weaken Germany,
  to keep her from obtaining supremacy, but to break her up into small states
  so that she [France] would be able to hold the Rhine frontier. After all
  the Government's reiterations of our weakness, we knew that on top of the
  Saar and Upper Silesia we would lose our third coal region, the Ruhr; each
  loss brought on the next one....
  
  Only burning, ruthless, brutal fanaticism could have saved the situation.
  The Reich Government should have let the hundreds of thousands of young men
  who were pouring out of the Ruhr into the Reich under the old colors of
  black-white-red flow together in a mighty national wave. Instead, these young
  people were sent back home. The resistance that was organized was for wages;
  the national resistance was degraded to a paid general strike. It was forgotten
  that a foe like France cannot be prayed away, still less can he be idled
  away....
  
  Our youth has - and may this be heard in Paris - but one thought: that the
  day may come when we shall again be free. .. . . My attitude is this: I would
  rather that Germany go Bolshevist and I be hanged than that she should be
  destroyed by the French rule of the sword.... It turned out that the
  back-stabbers were stronger than ever.... With pride I admit that our men
  were the only ones to really resist in the Ruhr. We intended to hold fourteen
  meetings and introduce a propaganda campaign throughout Germany with the
  slogan: DOWN WITH THE RUHR TRAITORS!, But we were surprised by the banning
  of these mass meetings. I had met Herr von Kahr in 1920. Kahr had impressed
  me as being an honest official. I asked him why the fourteen mass meetings
  had been banned. The reason he gave me simply would not hold water. THE REAL
  REASON WAS SOMETHING THAT COULD NOT BE REVEALED. . - -
  
  From the very first day the watchword was: UNLIMITED STRUGGLE AGAINST BERLIN....
  
  The struggle against Berlin, as Dr. von Kahr would lead it, is a crime; one
  must have the courage to be logical and see that the struggle must be
  incorporated in the German national uprising. I said that all that had been
  made of this struggle was a Bavarian rejection of Berlin's requests. But
  the people expected something other than a reduction in the price of beer,
  regulation of the price of milk and confiscation of butter tubs and other
  such impossible economic proposals - proposals which make you want to ask:
  who is the genius that is advising them? Every failure could only further
  enrage the masses, and I pointed out that while the people were now only
  laughing at Kahr's measures, later on they would rise up against them. I
  said: 'Either you finish the job - and there is only the political and military
  struggle left. When you cross the Rubicon, you must march on Rome. Or else
  you do not want to struggle; then only capitulation is left....'
  
  The struggle had to turn toward the North; it could not be led by a purely
  Bavarian organization . . . I said: 'The only man to head it is Ludendorff.'
  
  I had first seen Ludendorff in 1918, in the field. In 1920 I first spoke
  personally with him. I saw that he was not only the outstanding general,
  but that he had now learned the lesson and understood what had brought the
  German nation to ruin. That Ludendorff was talked down by the others was
  one more reason for me to come closer to him. I therefore proposed Ludendorff,
  and Lossow and Seisser had no objections.
  
  I further explained to Lossow that right now nothing could be accomplished
  by petty economic measures. The fight was against Marxism. To solve this
  problem, not administrators were needed but firebrands who would be in a
  position to inflame the national spirit to the extreme. Kahr could not do
  that, I pointed out; the youth were not behind him. I declared that I could
  join them only on the condition that the political struggle was put into
  my hands alone. This was not impudence or immodesty; I believe that when
  a man knows he can do a job, he must not be modest....
  
  One thing was certain: Lossow, Kahr, and Seisser had the same goal that we
  had: to get rid of the Reich Government with its present international and
  parliamentary position, and to replace it by an anti-parliamentary government.
  If our undertaking was actually high treason, then during this whole period
  Lossow, Seisser, and Kahr must have been committing high treason along with
  us - for during all those months we talked of nothing but the aims of which
  we now stand accused....
  
  How could we have called for a new government if we had not known that the
  gentlemen in power were altogether on our side? How else could we, two days
  before, have given such orders as: at 8:30 o'clock such and such a government
  will be proclaimed....
  
  Lossow talked of a coup d'etat. Kahr quite openly declared that he would
  give the word to strike. The only possible interpretation of this talk is
  that these men wanted to strike, but each time lost their nerve. Our last
  conversation, on November 6, was for me the absolute confirmation of my belief
  that these men wanted to, but - !....
