
  IN NOVEMBER, 1918, Marxist organizations seized the executive power by means
  of a revolution. The monarchs were dethroned, the authorities of the Reich
  and of the States removed from office, and thereby a breach of the Constitution
  was committed. The success of the revolution in a material sense protected
  the guilty parties from the hands of the law. They sought to justify it morally
  by asserting that Germany or its Government bore the guilt for the outbreak
  of the War.
  
  This assertion was deliberately and actually untrue. In consequence, however,
  these untrue accusations in the interest of our former enemies led to the
  severest oppression of the entire German nation and to the breach of the
  assurances given to us in Wilson's fourteen points, and so for Germany, that
  is to say the working classes of the German people, to a time of infinite
  misfortune....
  
  The splitting up of the nation into groups with irreconcilable views,
  systematically brought about by the false doctrines of Marxism, means the
  destruction of the basis of a possible communal life.... It is only the creation
  of a real national community, rising above the interests and differences
  of rank and class, that can permanently remove the source of nourishment
  of these aberrations of the human mind. The establishment of such a solidarity
  of views in the German body corporate is all the more important, for it is
  only thereby that the possibility is provided of maintaining friendly relations
  with foreign Powers without regard to the tendencies or general principles
  by which they are dominated, for the elimination of communism in Germany
  is a purely domestic German affair.
  
  Simultaneously with this political purification of our public life, the
  Government of the Reich will undertake a thorough moral purging of the body
  corporate of the nation. The entire educational system, the theater, the
  cinema, literature, the Press, and the wireless - all these will be used
  as means to this end and valued accordingly. They must all serve for the
  maintenance of the eternal values present in the essential character of our
  people. Art will always remain the expression and the reflection of the longings
  and the realities of an era. The neutral international attitude of aloofness
  is rapidly disappearing. Heroism is coming forward passionately and will
  in future shape and lead political destiny. It is the task of art to be the
  expression of this determining spirit of the age. Blood and race will once
  more become the source of artistic intuition....
  
  Our legal institutions must serve above all for the maintenance of this national
  community. The irremovableness of the judges must ensure a sense of
  responsibility and the exercise of discretion in their judgments in the interests
  of society. Not the individual but the nation as a whole alone can be the
  center of legislative solicitude. High treason and treachery to the nation
  will be ruthlessly eradicated in the future. The foundations of the existence
  of justice cannot be other than the foundations of the existence of the nation.
  
  The Government, being resolved to undertake the political and moral purification
  of our public life, is creating and securing the conditions necessary for
  a really profound revival of religious life.
  
  The advantages of a personal and political nature that might arise from
  compromising with atheistic organizations would not outweigh the consequences
  which would become apparent in the destruction of general moral basic values.
  The national Government regards the two Christian confessions as the weightiest
  factors for the maintenance of our nationality. It will respect the agreements
  concluded between it and the federal States. Their rights are not to be
  infringed. But the Government hopes and expects that the work on the national
  and moral regeneration of our nation which it has made its task will, on
  the other hand, be treated with the same respect....
  
  Great are the tasks of the national Government in the sphere of economic
  life.
  
  Here all action must be governed by one law: the people does not live for
  business, and business does not exist for capital; but capital serves business,
  and business serves the people. In principle, the Government will not protect
  the economic interests of the German people by the circuitous method of an
  economic bureaucracy to be organized by the State, but by the utmost furtherance
  of private initiative and by the recognition of the rights of property....
  
  The Government will systematically avoid currency experiments. We are faced
  above all by two economic tasks of the first magnitude. The salvation of
  the German farmer must be achieved at all costs....
  
  Furthermore, it is perfectly clear to the national Government that the final
  removal of the distress both in agricultural business and in that of the
  towns depends on the absorption of the army of the unemployed in the process
  of production. This constitutes the second of the great economic tasks. It
  can only be solved by a general appeasement, in applying sound natural economic
  principles and all measures necessary, even if, at the time, they cannot
  reckon with any degree of popularity. The providing of work and the compulsory
  labor service are, in this connection, only individual measures within the
  scope of the entire action proposed....
  
  We are aware that the geographic position of Germany, with her lack of raw
  materials, does not fully permit of economic self-sufficiency for the Reich.
  It cannot be too often emphasized that nothing is further from the thoughts
  of the Government of the Reich than hostility to exporting. We are fully
  aware that we have need of the connection with the outside world, and that
  the marketing of German commodities in the world provides a livelihood for
  many millions of our fellow-countrymen.
  
  We also know what are the conditions necessary for a sound exchange of services
  between the nations of the world. For Germany has been compelled for years
  to perform services without receiving an equivalent, with the result that
  the task of maintaining Germany as an active partner in the exchange of
  commodities is not so much one of commercial as of financial policy. So long
  as we are not accorded a reasonable settlement of our foreign debts corresponding
  to our economic capacity, we are unfortunately compelled to maintain our
  foreign-exchange control. The Government of the Reich is, for that reason,
  also compelled to maintain the restrictions on the efflux of capital across
  the frontiers of Germany....
  
  The protection of the frontiers of the Reich and thereby of the lives of
  our people and the existence of our business is now in the hands of the
  Reichswehr, which, in accordance with the terms imposed upon us by the Treaty
  of Versailles, is to be regarded as the only really disarmed army in the
  world. In spite of its enforced smallness and entirely insufficient armament,
  the German people may regard their Reichswehr with proud satisfaction. This
  little instrument of our national self-defence has come into being under
  the most difficult conditions. The spirit imbuing it is that of our best
  military traditions. The German nation has thus fulfilled with painful
  conscientiousness the obligations imposed upon it by the Peace Treaty, indeed,
  even the replacement of ships for our fleet then sanctioned has, I may perhaps
  be allowed to say, unfortunately, only been carried out to a small extent.
  
  For years Germany has been waiting in vain for the fulfillment of the promise
  of disarmament made to her by the others. It is the sincere desire of the
  national Government to be able to refrain from increasing our army and our
  weapons, insofar as the rest of the world is now also ready to fulfill its
  obligations in the matter of radical disarmament. For Germany desires nothing
  except an equal right to live and equal freedom.
  
  In any case the national Government will educate the German people in this
  spirit of a desire for freedom. The national honor, the honor of our army
  and the ideal of freedom must once more become sacred to the German people!
  
  The German nation wishes to live in peace with the rest of the world. But
  it is for this very reason that the Government of the Reich will employ every
  means to obtain the final removal of the division of the nations of the world
  into two categories. The keeping open of this wound leads to distrust on
  the one side and hatred on the other, and thus to a general feeling of
  insecurity. The national Government is ready to extend a hand in sincere
  understanding to every nation that is ready finally to make an end of the
  tragic past. The international economic distress can only disappear when
  the basis has been provided by stable political relations and when the nations
  have regained confidence in each other.
  
  For the overcoming of the economic catastrophe three things are necessary:
  
      Absolutely authoritative leadership in internal affairs, in order to create
      confidence in the stability of conditions.
    
      The securing of peace by the great nations for a long time to come, with
      a view to restoring the confidence of the nations in each other.
    
      The final victory of the principles of common sense in the organization and
      conduct of business, and also a general release from reparations and impossible
      liabilities for debts and interest.
  
  We are unfortunately faced by the fact that the Geneva Conference, in spite
  of lengthy negotiations, has so far reached no practical result. The decision
  regarding the securing of a real measure of disarmament has been constantly
  delayed by the raising of questions of technical detail and by the introduction
  of problems that have nothing to do with disarmament. This procedure is useless.
  
  The illegal state of one-sided disarmament and the resulting national insecurity
  of Germany cannot continue any longer.
  
  We recognize it as a sign of the feeling of responsibility and of the good
  will of the British Government that they have endeavored, by means of their
  disarmament proposal, to cause the Conference finally to arrive at speedy
  decisions. The Government of the Reich will support every endeavor aimed
  at really carrying out general disarmament and securing the fulfillment of
  Germany's long-overdue claim for disarmament. For fourteen years we have
  been disarmed, and for fourteen months we have been waiting for the results
  of the Disarmament Conference. Even more far-reaching is the plan of the
  head of the Italian Government, which makes a broad-minded and far-seeing
  attempt to secure a peaceful and consistent development of the whole of European
  policy. We attach the greatest weight to this plan, and we are ready to
  co-operate with absolute sincerity on the basis it provides, in order to
  unite the four Great Powers, England, France, Italy, and Germany, in friendly
  co-operation in attacking with courage and determination the problems upon
  the solution of which the fate of Europe depends.
  
  It is for this reason that we are particularly grateful for the appreciative
  heartiness with which the national renaissance of Germany has been greeted
  in Italy....
  
  In the same way, the Government of the Reich, which regards Christianity
  as the unshakable foundation of the morals and moral code of the nation,
  attaches the greatest value to friendly relations with the Holy See, and
  is endeavoring to develop them. We feel sympathy for our brother nation in
  Austria in its trouble and distress. In all their doings the Government of
  the Reich is conscious of the connection between the destiny of all German
  races. Their attitude toward the other foreign Powers may be gathered from
  what has already been said. But even in cases where our mutual relations
  are encumbered with difficulties, we shall endeavor to arrive at a settlement.
  But in any case the basis for an understanding can never be the distinction
  between victor and vanquished.
  
  We are convinced that such a settlement is possible in our relations with
  France, if the Governments will attack the problems affecting them on both
  sides in a really broadminded way. The Government of the Reich is ready to
  cultivate with the Soviet Union friendly relations profitable to both parties.
  It is above all the Government of the National Revolution which feels itself
  in a position to adopt such a positive policy with regard to Soviet Russia.
  The fight against communism in Germany is our internal affair in which we
  will never permit interference from outside....
  
  We have particularly at heart the fate of the Germans living beyond the frontiers
  of Germany who are allied with us in speech, culture, and customs and have
  to make a hard fight to retain these values. The national Government is resolved
  to use all the means at its disposal to support the rights internationally
  guaranteed to the German minorities.
  
  We welcome the plan for a World Economic Conference and approve of its meeting
  at an early date. The Government of the Reich is ready to take part in this
  Conference, in order to arrive at positive results at last. . . .
