
  . . . IF TODAY the National Socialist Movement is regarded amongst widespread
  circles in Germany as being hostile to our business life, I believe the reason
  for this view is to be found in the fact that we adopted towards the events
  which determined the development leading to our present position an attitude
  which differed from that of all the other organizations which are of any
  importance in our public life. Even now our outlook differs in many points
  from that of our opponents....
  
  I regard it as of the first importance to break once and for all with the
  view that our destiny is conditioned by world events. It is not true that
  our distress has its final cause in a world crisis, in a world catastrophe:
  the true view is that we have reached a state of general crisis, because
  from the first certain mistakes were made. I must not say 'According to the
  general view the Peace Treaty of Versailles is the cause of our misfortune.'
  What is the Peace Treaty of Versailles but the work of men? It is not a burden
  which has been imposed or laid upon us by Providence. It is the work of men
  for which, it goes without saying, once again men with their merits or their
  failings must be held responsible. If this were not so, how should men ever
  be able to set aside this work at all? I am of the opinion that there is
  nothing which has been produced by the will of man which cannot in its turn
  be altered by another human will.
  
  Both the Peace Treaty of Versailles together with all the consequences of
  that Treaty have been the result of a policy which perhaps fifteen, fourteen,
  or thirteen years ago was regarded as the right policy, at least in the enemy
  States, but which from our point of view was bound to be regarded as fatal
  when ten or less years ago its true character was disclosed to millions of
  Germans and now today stands revealed in its utter impossibility. I am bound
  therefore to assert that there must of necessity have been in Germany, too,
  some responsibility for these happenings if I am to have any belief that
  the German people can exercise some influence towards changing these conditions.
  
  IT IS ALSO IN MY VIEW FALSE TO SAY THAT LIFE IN GERMANY TODAY IS SOLELY
  DETERMINED BY CONSIDERATIONS OF FOREIGN POLICY, that the primacy of foreign
  policy governs today the whole of our domestic life. Certainly a people can
  reach the point when foreign relations influence and determine completely
  its domestic life. But let no one say that such a condition is from the first
  either natural or desirable. Rather the important thing is that a people
  should create the conditions for a change in this state of affairs.
  
  If anyone says to me that its foreign politics is primarily decisive for
  the life of a people, then I must first ask: what then is the meaning of
  the term 'Politics'? There is a whole series of definitions. Frederick the
  Great said: 'Politics is the art of serving one's State with every means.'
  Bismarck's explanation was that 'Politics is the art of the Possible,' starting
  from the conception that advantage should be taken of every possibility to
  serve the State - and, in the later transformation of the idea of the State
  into the idea of nationalities, the Nation. Another considers that this service
  rendered to the people can be effected by military as well as peaceful action:
  for Clausewitz says that war is the continuation of politics though with
  different means. Conversely, Clemenceau considers that today peace is nothing
  but the continuation of war and the pursuing of the war-aim, though again
  with other means. To put it briefly: politics is nothing else and can be
  nothing else than the safeguarding of a people's vital interests and the
  practical waging of its life-battle with every means. Thus it is quite clear
  that this life-battle from the first has its starting-point in the people
  itself and that at the same time the people is the object - the real thing
  of value - which has to be preserved. All functions of this body formed by
  the people must in the last resort fulfill only one purpose - to secure in
  the future the maintenance of this body which is the people. I can therefore
  say neither that foreign policy nor economic policy is of primary significance.
  Of course, a people needs the business world in order to live. But business
  is but one of the functions of this body-politic whereby its existence is
  assured. But primarily the essential thing is the starting-point and that
  is the people itself....
  
  It is therefore false to say that foreign politics shapes a people: rather,
  peoples order their relations to the world about them in correspondence with
  their inborn forces and according to the measure in which their education
  enables them to bring those forces into play. We may be quite convinced that
  if in the place of the Germany of today there had stood a different Germany,
  the attitude towards the rest of the world would also have been different,
  and then presumably the influences exercised by the rest of the world would
  have taken a different form. To deny this would mean that Germany's destiny
  can no longer be changed no matter what Government rules in Germany....
  
  And as against this conception I am the champion of another standpoint: three
  factors, I hold, essentially determine a people's political life:
  
  First, the inner value of a people which as an inherited sum and possession
  is transmitted again and again through the generations, a value which suffers
  any change when the people, the custodian of this inherited possession, changes
  itself in its inner blood-conditioned composition. It is beyond question
  that certain traits of character, certain virtues, and certain vices always
  recur in peoples so long as their inner nature - their blood-conditioned
  composition - has not essentially altered. I can already trace the virtues
  and the vices of our German people in the writers of Rome just as clearly
  as I see them today. This inner value which determines the life of a people
  can be destroyed by nothing save only through a change in the blood causing
  a change in substance. Temporarily an illogical form of organization of life
  or unintelligent education may prejudice it. But in that case, though its
  effective action may be hindered, the fundamental value in itself is still
  present as it was before. And it is this value which is the great source
  of all hopes for a people's revival, it is this which justifies the belief
  that a people which in the course of thousands of years has furnished countless
  examples of the highest inner value cannot suddenly have lost overnight this
  inborn inherited value, but that one day this people will once again bring
  this value into action. If this were not the case, then the faith of millions
  of men in a better future - the mystic hope for a new Germany - would be
  incomprehensible. It would be incomprehensible how it was that this German
  people, at the end of the Thirty Years War, when its population had shrunk
  from eighteen to thirteen and one-half millions, could ever have once more
  formed the hope through work, through industry, and capacity to rise again,
  how in this completely crushed people hundreds of thousands and finally millions
  should have been seized with the longing for a re-formation of their State.
  . . .
  
  I said that this value can be destroyed. There are indeed in especial two
  other closely related factors which we can time and again trace in periods
  of national decline: the one is that for the conception of the value of
  personality there is substituted a levelling idea of the supremacy of mere
  numbers - democracy - and the other is the negation of the value of a people,
  the denial of any difference in the inborn capacity, the achievement, etc.,
  of individual peoples. Thus both factors condition one another or at least
  influence each other in the course of their development. Internationalism
  and democracy are inseparable conceptions. It is but logical that democracy,
  which within a people denies the special value of the individual and puts
  in its place a value which represents the sum of all individualities - a
  purely numerical value - should proceed in precisely the same way in the
  life of peoples and should in that sphere result in internationalism. Broadly
  it is maintained: peoples have no inborn values, but, at the most, there
  can be admitted perhaps temporary differences in education. Between Negroes,
  Aryans, Mongolians, and Redskins there is no essential difference in value.
  This view which forms the basis of the whole of the international thought-world
  of today and in its effects is carried to such lengths that in the end a
  Negro can sit as president in the sessions of the League of Nations leads
  necessarily as a further consequence to the point that in a similar way within
  a people differences in value between the individual members of this people
  are denied. And thus naturally every special capacity, every fundamental
  value of a people, can practically be made of no effect. For the greatness
  of a people is the result not of the sum of all its achievements but in the
  last resort of the sum of its outstanding achievements. Let no one say that
  the picture produced as a first impression of human civilization is the
  impression of its achievement as a whole. This whole edifice of civilization
  is in its foundations and in all its stones nothing else than the result
  of the creative capacity, the achievement, the intelligence, the industry,
  of individuals: in its greatest triumphs it represents the great crowning
  achievement of individual God-favored geniuses, in its average accomplishment
  the achievement of men of average capacity, and in its sum doubtless the
  result of the use of human labor-force in order to turn to account the creations
  of genius and of talent. So it is only natural that when the capable
  intelligences of a nation, which are always in a minority, are regarded only
  as of the same value as all the rest, then genius, capacity, the value of
  personality are slowly subjected to the majority and this process is then
  falsely named the rule of the people. For this is not rule of the people,
  but in reality the rule of stupidity, of mediocrity, of half-heartedness,
  of cowardice, of weakness, and of inadequacy....
  
  Thus democracy will in practice lead to the destruction of a people's true
  values. And this also serves to explain how It is that peoples with a great
  past from the time when they surrender themselves to the unlimited, democratic
  rule of the masses slowly lose their former position; for the
  outstanding-achievements of individuals which they still possess or which
  could be produced in all spheres of life are now rendered practically ineffective
  through the oppression of mere numbers. And thus in these conditions a people
  will gradually lose its importance not merely in the cultural and economic
  spheres but altogether, in a comparatively short time it will no longer,
  within the setting of the other peoples of the world, maintain its former
  value. . . .
  
  And to this there must be added a third factor: namely, the view that life
  in this world, after the denial of the value of personality and of the special
  value of a people, is not to be maintained through conflict. That is a conception
  which could perhaps be disregarded if it fixed itself only in the heads of
  individuals, but yet has appalling consequences because it slowly poisons
  an entire people. And it is not as if such general changes in men's outlook
  on the world remained only on the surface or were confined to their effects
  on men's minds. No, in course of time they exercise a profound influence
  and affect all expressions of a people's life.
  
  I may cite an example: you maintain, gentlemen, that German business life
  must be constructed on a basis of private property. Now such a conception
  as that of private property you can defend only if in some way or another
  it appears to have a logical foundation. This conception must deduce its
  ethical justification from an insight into the necessity which Nature dictates.
  It cannot simply be upheld by saying: 'It has always been so and therefore
  it must continue to be so.' For in periods of great upheavals within States,
  of movements of peoples and changes in thought, institutions and systems
  cannot remain untouched because they have previously been preserved without
  change. It is the characteristic feature of all really great revolutionary
  epochs in the history of mankind that they pay astonishingly little regard
  for forms which are hallowed only by age or which are apparently only so
  consecrated. It is thus necessary to give such foundations to traditional
  forms which are to be preserved that they can be regarded as absolutely
  essential, as logical and right. And then I am bound to say that private
  property can be morally and ethically justified only if I admit that men's
  achievements are different. Only on that basis can I assert: since men's
  achievements are different, the results of those achievements are also different.
  But if the results of those achievements are different, then it is reasonable
  to leave to men the administration of those results to a corresponding degree.
  It would not be logical to entrust the administration of the result of an
  achievement which was bound up with a personality either to the next best
  but less capable person or to a community which, through the mere fact that
  it had not performed the achievement, has proved that it is not capable of
  administering the result of that achievement. Thus it must be admitted that
  in the economic sphere, from the start, in all branches men are not of equal
  value or of equal importance. And once this is admitted it is madness to
  say: in the economic sphere there are undoubtedly differences in value, but
  that is not true in the political sphere. IT IS ABSURD TO BUILD UP ECONOMIC
  LIFE ON THE CONCEPTIONS OF ACHIEVEMENT, OF THE VALUE OF PERSONALITY, AND
  THEREFORE IN PRACTICE ON THE AUTHORITY OF PERSONALITY, BUT IN THE POLITICAL
  SPHERE TO DENY THE AUTHORITY OF PERSONALITY AND TO THRUST INTO ITS PLACE
  THE LAW OF THE GREATER NUMBER - DEMOCRACY. In that case there must slowly
  arise a cleavage between the economic and the political point of view, and
  to bridge that cleavage an attempt will be made to assimilate the former
  to the latter - indeed the attempt has been made, for this cleavage has not
  remained bare, pale theory. The conception of the equality of values has
  already, not only in politics but in economics also, been raised to a system,
  and that not merely in abstract theory: no! this economic system is alive
  in gigantic organizations and it has already today inspired a State which
  rules over immense areas.
  
  But I cannot regard it as possible that the life of a people should in the
  long run be based upon two fundamental conceptions. If the view is right
  that there are differences in human achievement, then it must also be true
  that the value of men in respect of the production of certain achievements
  is different It is then absurd to allow this principle to hold good only
  In one sphere - the sphere of economic life and its leadership - and to refuse
  to acknowledge its validity in the sphere of the whole life-struggle of a
  people - the sphere of politics. Rather the logical course is that if I recognize
  without qualification in the economic sphere the fact of special achievements
  as forming the condition of all higher culture, then in the same way I should
  recognize special achievement in the sphere of politics, and that means that
  I am bound to put in the forefront the authority of personality. If, on the
  contrary, it is asserted - and that, too, by those engaged in business -
  that in the political sphere special capacities are not necessary but that
  here an absolute equality in achievement reigns, then one day this same theory
  will be transferred from politics and applied to economic life. But in the
  economic sphere communism is analogous to democracy in the political sphere.
  We find ourselves today in a period in which these two fundamental principles
  are at grips in all spheres which come into contact with each other; already
  they are invading economics.
  
  To take an example: Life in practical activity is founded on the importance
  of personality: but now gradually it is threatened by the supremacy of mere
  numbers. But in the State there is an organization - the army - which cannot
  in any way be democratized without surrendering its very existence. But if
  a Weltanschauung cannot be applied to every sphere of a people's life, that
  fact in itself is sufficient proof of its weakness. In other words: the army
  can exist only if it maintains the absolutely undemocratic principle of
  unconditional authority proceeding downwards and absolute responsibility
  proceeding upwards, while, in contradistinction to this, democracy means
  in practice complete dependence proceeding downwards and authority proceeding
  upwards. But the result is that in a State in which the whole political life
  - beginning with the parish and ending with the Reichstag - is built up on
  the conception of democracy, the army is bound gradually to become an alien
  body and an alien body which must necessarily be felt to be such. It is for
  democracy an alien world of ideas, an alien Weltanschauung which inspires
  the life of this body. An internal conflict between the representatives of
  the democratic principle and the representatives of the principle of authority
  must be the inevitable consequence, and this conflict we are actually
  experiencing in Germany....
  
  So in the same way the education to pacifism must of necessity have its effect
  right through life until it reaches the humblest individual lives. The conception
  of pacifism is logical if I once admit a general equality amongst peoples
  and human beings. For in that case what sense is there in conflict? The
  conception of pacifism translated into practice and applied to all spheres
  must gradually lead to the destruction of the competitive instinct, to the
  destruction of the ambition for outstanding achievement. I cannot say: in
  politics we will be pacifists, we reject the idea of the necessity for life
  to safeguard itself through conflict - but in economics we want to remain
  keenly competitive. If I reject the idea of conflict as such, it is of no
  importance that for the time being that idea is still applied in some single
  spheres. In the last resort political decisions are decisive and determine
  achievement in the single sphere....
  
  To sum up the argument: I see two diametrically opposed principles: the principle
  of democracy which, wherever it is allowed practical effect is the principle
  of destruction: and the principle of the authority of personality which I
  would call the principle of achievement, because whatever man in the past
  has achieved - all human civilizations - is conceivable only if the supremacy
  of this principle is admitted.
  
  The worth of a people, the character of its internal organization through
  which this worth of a people may produce its effect, and the character of
  a people's education - these are the starting-points for political action:
  these are the foundations for the success of that action....
  
  That the evidences of a crisis should today spread over almost the entire
  world is comprehensible when one considers that the world has been opened
  up and mutual relations have been strengthened to an extent which fifty,
  eighty, or a hundred years ago appeared scarcely possible. And yet, despite
  this fact, one must not believe that such a state of affairs is conceivable
  only now, in the year 1932. No, similar conditions have been experienced
  more than once in the history of the world. Always when relations between
  peoples produced conditions such as these, the malady affecting these peoples
  was bound to spread and to influence the position of all.
  
  It is, of course, easy to say: we prefer to wait until there is a change
  in the general position, but that is impossible. For the position which faces
  you today is not the consequence of a revelation of God's will, but the result
  of human weaknesses, of human mistakes, of men's false judgments. It is but
  natural that there must first be a change in these causes, that men must
  first be inwardly transformed, before one can count on any alteration in
  the position.
  
  That conclusion is forced upon us if we look at the world today: we have
  a number of nations which through their inborn outstanding worth have fashioned
  for themselves a mode of life which stands in no relation to the life-space
  - the Lebensraum - which in their thickly populated settlements they inhabit.
  We have the so-called white race which, since the collapse of ancient
  civilization, in the course of some thousand years has created for itself
  a privileged position in the world. But I am quite unable to understand this
  privileged position, this economic supremacy, of the white race over the
  rest of the world if I do not bring it into close connection with a political
  conception of supremacy which has been peculiar to the white race for many
  centuries and has been regarded as in the nature of things: this conception
  it has maintained in its dealings with other peoples. Take any single area
  you like, take for example India. England did not conquer India by the way
  of justice and of law: she conquered India without regard to the wishes,
  to the views of the natives, or to their formulations of justice, and, when
  necessary, she has upheld this supremacy with the most brutal ruthlessness.
  Just in the same way Cortez or Pizarro annexed Central America and the northern
  states of South America, not on the basis of any claim of right, but from
  the absolute inborn feeling of the superiority of the white race. The settlement
  of the North American continent is just as little the consequence of any
  claim of superior right in any democratic or international sense; it was
  the consequence of a consciousness of right which was rooted solely in the
  conviction of the superiority and therefore of the right of the white race.
  If I think away this attitude of mind which in the course of the last three
  or four centuries has won the world for the white race, then the destiny
  of this race would in fact have been no different from that, say, of the
  Chinese: an immensely congested mass of human beings crowded upon an
  extraordinarily narrow territory, an over-population with all its unavoidable
  consequences. If Fate allowed the white race to take a different path, that
  is only because this white race was convinced that it had the right to organize
  the rest of the world. It matters not what superficial disguises in individual
  cases this right may have assumed, in practice it was the exercise. . . .
