
  . . . THIS election means that the circle is now complete. And the question
  at this time is: what are the aims of this opposition and its leaders?
  
  It is a fight for an idea - a Weltanschhauung: and in the forefront stands
  a fundamental principle: Men do not exist for the State, the State exists
  for men. First and far above all else stands the idea of the people: the
  State is a form of organization of this people, and the meaning and the purpose
  of the State are through this form of organization to assure the life of
  the people. And from this there arises a new mode of thought and thus necessarily
  a new political method.
  
  We say: a new mode of thought. Today our whole official political outlook
  is rooted in the view that the State must be maintained because the State
  in itself is the essential thing; we, on the other hand, maintain that the
  State in its form has a definite purpose to fulfill and the moment that it
  fails to fulfill its purpose the form stands condemned. Above everything
  stands the purpose to maintain the nation's life - that is the essential
  thing and one should not speak of a law for the protection of the State but
  for the protection of the nation: it is of this protection that one must
  think.... In the place of this rigid formal organization - the State - must
  be set the living organism - the people. Then all action is given a new
  untrammelled freedom: all the formal fetters which can today be imposed on
  men become immoral directly they fail to maintain the people, because that
  is the highest purpose in life and the aim of all reasonable thought and
  action.
  
  If today our action employs among its different weapons that of Parliament,
  that is not to say that parliamentary parties exist only for parliamentary
  ends. For us Parliament is not an end in itself, but merely a means to an
  end . . . we are not on principle a parliamentary party - that would be a
  contradiction of our whole outlook - WE ARE A PARLIAMENTARY PARTY BY COMPULSION,
  UNDER CONSTRAINT, AND THAT COMPULSION IS THE CONSTITUTION. The Constitution
  compels us to use this means. It does not compel us to wish for a particular
  goal, it only prescribes a way - a method, and, I repeat, we follow this
  way legally, in accordance with the Constitution: by the way laid down through
  the Constitution we advance towards the purposes which we have set before
  us.
  
  Never can Constitutions determine for all time the content of a purpose,
  especially when this content is not identical with the vital rights of a
  people. If today the Constitution admits for its protection laws which are
  headed, 'Laws for the Protection of the Republic,' then it is demonstrated
  that the most which our present Constitution can prescribe is nothing but
  the protection and the maintenance of a form, and that does not touch the
  maintenance of the nation, of a people. This purpose is therefore free: this
  is the goal which we proclaim and to which we shall attain. . .
  
  From blood, authority of personality, and a fighting spirit springs that
  value which alone entitles a people to look around with glad hope, and that
  alone is also the condition for the life which men then desire. And when
  that is realized, then that too is realized for which today the political
  parties strive: prosperity, happiness of the individual, family-life, etc.
  First will come honor and then freedom, and from both of these happiness,
  prosperity, life: in a word, that state of things will return which we Germans
  perhaps dimly saw before the War, when individuals can once more live with
  joy in their hearts because life has a meaning and a purpose, because the
  close of life is then not in itself the end, since there will be an endless
  chain of generations to follow: man will know that what we create will not
  sink into Orcus but will pass to his children and to his children's children.
  And so this victory which we have just won is nothing else than the winning
  of a new weapon for our fight.... IT IS NOT FOR SEATS IN PARLIAMENT THAT
  WE FIGHT, BUT WE WIN SEATS IN PARLIAMENT IN ORDER THAT ONE DAY WE MAY BE
  ABLE TO LIBERATE THE GERMAN PEOPLE....
  
  Do not write on your banners the word 'Victory': today that word shall be
  uttered for the last time. Strike through the word 'Victory' and write once
  more in its place the word which suits us better - the word 'Fight.'
