
  . . . IN OUR view, the times when there was no 'League of Nations' were far
  more honorable and more humane.... We ask: 'Must there be wars?' The pacifist
  answers 'No!' He proceeds to explain that disputes in the life of peoples
  are only the expression of the fact that a class has been oppressed by the
  ruling bourgeoisie. When there are in fact differences of opinion between
  peoples, then these should be brought before a 'Peace Court' for its decision.
  But he does not answer the question whether the judges of this court of
  arbitration would have the power to bring the parties before the bar of the
  court. I believe that an accused ordinarily only appears 'voluntarily' before
  a court because, if he did not, he would be fetched there.
  
  I should like to see the nation which would allow itself to be brought before
  this League of Nations Court in the case of a disagreement without external
  force. In the life of nations, what in the last resort decides questions
  is a kind of Judgment Court of God. It may even happen that in case of a
  dispute between two peoples - both may be in the right. Thus Austria, a people
  of fifty millions, had most certainly the right to an outlet to the sea.
  But since in the strip of territory in question the Italian element of the
  population was in the majority, Italy claimed for herself the 'right of
  self-determination.' Who yields voluntarily? No one! So the strength which
  each people possesses decides the day. ALWAYS BEFORE GOD AND THE WORLD THE
  STRONGER HAS THE RIGHT TO CARRY THROUGH WHAT HE WILLS.
  
  History proves: He who has not the strength - him the 'right in itself' profits
  not a whit. A world court without a world police would be a joke. And from
  what nations of the present League of Nations would then this force be recruited?
  Perhaps from the ranks of the old German Army? THE WHOLE WORLD OF NATURE
  IS A MIGHTY STRUGGLE BETWEEN STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS - AN ETERNAL VICTORY OF
  THE STRONG OVER THE WEAK. There would be nothing but decay in the whole of
  Nature if this were not so. States which should offend against the elementary
  law would fall into decay. You need not seek for long to find an example
  of such mortal decay: you can see it in the Reich of today....
  
  . . . Before the war two States, Germany and France, had to live side by
  side but only under arms. It is true that the War of 1870-1 meant for Germany
  the close of an enmity which had endured for centuries, but in France a
  passionate hatred against Germany was fostered by every means by propaganda
  in the press, in school textbooks, in theaters, in the cinemas. . . . All
  the Jewish papers throughout France agitated against Berlin. Here again to
  seek and to exploit grounds for a conflict is the clearly recognizable effort
  of world Jewry.
  
  The conflict of interests between Germany and England lay in the economic
  sphere. Up till 1850 England's position as a World Power was undisputed.
  British engineers, British trade conquer the world. Germany, owing to greater
  industry and increased capacity, begins to be a dangerous rival. In a short
  time those firms which in Germany were in English hands pass into the possession
  of German industrialists. German industry expands vastly and the products
  of that industry even in the London market drive out British goods.
  
  The protective measure, the stamp 'Made in Germany,' has the opposite effect
  from that desired: this 'protective stamp' becomes a highly effective
  advertisement. The German economic success was not created in Essen alone
  but by a man who knew that behind economics must stand power, for power alone
  makes an economic position secure. This power was born upon the battlefields
  of 1870-71, not in the atmosphere of parliamentary chatter. Forty thousand
  dead have rendered possible the life of forty millions. When England, in
  the face of such a Germany as this, threatened to be brought to her knees,
  then she bethought herself of the last weapon in the armory of international
  rivalry - violence. A press propaganda on an imposing scale was started as
  a preparatory measure.
  
  But who is the chief of the whole British press concerned with world trade?
  One name crystallizes itself out of the rest: Northcliffe - a Jew! . . .
  A campaign of provocation is carried on with assertions, libels, and promises
  such as only a Jew can devise, such as only Jewish newspapers would have
  the effrontery to put before an Aryan people. And then at last 1914: they
  egg people on: 'Ah, poor violated Belgium! Up! To the rescue of the small
  nations - for the honor of humanity!' The same lies, the same provocation
  throughout the entire world! And the success of that provocation the German
  people can trace grievously enough!
  
  WHAT CAUSE FINALLY HAD AMERICA TO ENTER THE WAR AGAINST GERMANY? WITH THE
  OUTBREAK OF THE WORLD WAR, WHICH JUDAH HAD DESIRED SO PAASSIONATELY AND SO
  LONG, ALL THE LARGE
  
  JEWISH FIRMS OF THE UNITED STATES BEGAN SUPPLYING AMMUNITIONS. They supplied
  the European 'war-market' to an extent which perhaps even they themselves
  had never dreamed of - a gigantic harvest! Yet nothing satisfied the insatiable
  greed of the Jew. And so the venal press which depended upon the Stock Exchange
  kings began an unparalleled propaganda campaign. A GIGANTIC ORGANIZATION
  FOR NEWSPAPER LYING WAS BUILT UP. AND ONCE MORE IT IS A JEWISH CONCERN, THE
  HEARST PRESS, WHICH SET THE TONE OF THE AGITATION AGAINST GERMANY.
  
  The hatred of these 'Americans' was not directed solely against commercial
  Germany or against military Germany. It was directed specially against social
  Germany, because this Germany had up to that time kept itself outside of
  the principles which governed the world trusts. The old Reich had at least
  made an honorable attempt to be socially-minded. We had to show for ourselves
  such an initiative in social institutions as no other country in the wide
  world could boast. . . . This explains why, even in Germany itself, the
  'comrades' under Jewish leadership fought against their own vital interests.
  This explains the agitation carried on throughout the world under the same
  watchword.
  
  For this reason the Jewish-democratic press of America had to accomplish
  its masterpiece - that is to say, it had to drive into the most horrible
  of all wars a great peace-loving people which was as little concerned in
  European struggles as it was in the North Pole: America was to intervene
  'in defense of civilization,' and the Americans were persuaded so to do by
  an atrocity propaganda conducted in the name of civilization which from A
  to Z was a scandalous invention the like of which has never yet been seen
  - a farrago of lies and forgeries. Because this last State in the world where
  social aims were being realized had to be destroyed, therefore twenty-six
  peoples were incited one against the other by this press which is exclusively
  in the possession of one and the same world people, of one and the same race,
  and that race on principle the deadly foe of all national States.
  
  Who could have prevented the World War? Not the Kul- tursolidarität,
  the 'solidarity of civilization,' in whose name the Jews carried on their
  propaganda: not the so-called World Pacifism - again an exclusively Jewish
  invention. Could the so-called 'Solidarity of the Proletariat?' . . . All
  the wheels stand silent, still, If that be your strong arm's will.... The
  German wheel on November 9, 1918, was indeed brought to a standstill. The
  Social Democratic party in its principal organ, Vorwärts, declared in
  so many words that it was not in the interest of the workers that Germany
  should win the war. . .
  
  Could the Freemasons perhaps stop the war? - this most noble of philanthropic
  institutions who foretold the good fortune of the people louder than anyone
  and who at the same time was the principal leader in promoting the war. Who,
  after all, are the Freemasons? You have to distinguish two grades. To the
  lower grade in Germany belong the ordinary citizens who through the claptrap
  which is served up to them can feel themselves to be 'somebodies,' but the
  responsible authorities are those many-sided folk who can stand any climate,
  those 300 Rathenaus who all know each other, who guide the history of the
  world over the heads of Kings and Presidents, those who will undertake any
  office without scruples, who know how brutally to enslave all peoples - once
  more the Jews!
  
  Why have the Jews been against Germany? That is made quite clear today -
  proved by countless facts. They use the age-old tactics of the hyena - when
  fighters are tired out, then go for them! Then make your harvest! In war
  and revolutions the Jew attained the unattainable. Hundreds of thousands
  of escaped Orientals become modern 'Europeans.' Times of unrest produce miracles.
  Before 1914 how long would it have taken, for instance, in Bavaria before
  a Galician Jew became - Prime Minister? - Or in Russia before an anarchist
  from the New York Ghetto, Bronstein (Trotsky), became - Dictator? Only a
  few wars and revolutions - that was enough to put the Jewish people into
  possession of the red gold and thereby to make them masters of the world.
  
  Before 1914 there were two States above all, Germany and Russia, which prevented
  the Jew from reaching his goal - the mastery of the world. Here not everything
  which they already possessed in the Western democracies had fallen to the
  Jews. Here they were not the sole lords alike in the intellectual and economic
  life. Here, too, the Parliaments were not yet exclusively instruments of
  Jewish capital and of the will of the Jew. The German and the genuine Russian
  had still preserved a certain aloofness from the Jew. In both peoples there
  still lived the healthy instinct of scorn for the Jew, and there was a real
  danger that in these monarchies there might one day arise a Frederick the
  Great, a William I, and that democracy and a parliamentary regime might be
  sent to the devil.
  
  So the Jews became revolutionaries! The Republic should bring them to wealth
  and to power. This aim they disguised: they cried 'Down with the monarchies!'
  'Enthrone the sovereign people!' I do not know whether today one could venture
  to call the German or the Russian people 'sovereign.' At least one cannot
  see any trace of it! What the German people can trace, however, what every
  day stands in the most crass form before its eyes, is debauchery, gluttony,
  speculation ruling unchecked, the open mockery of the Jew....
  
  So Russia and Germany had to be overthrown in order that the ancient prophecy
  might be fulfilled. So the whole world was lashed into fury. So every lie
  and propaganda agency was brutally set in action against the State of the
  last - the German - idealists! AND THUS IT WAS THAT JUDAH WON THE WORLD WAR.
  OR WOULD YOU WISH TO MAINTAIN THAT THE FRENCH, THE ENGLISH, OR THE AMERICAN
  'PEOPLE' WON THE WAR? THEY, ONE AND ALL, VICTORS AND VANQUISHED ARE ALIKE
  DEFEATED: one thing raises itself above them all: the World Stock Exchange
  which has become the master of the people.
  
  WHAT GUILT HAD GERMANY HERSELF FOR THE OUTBREAK OF THE WAR? HER GUILT CONSISTED
  IN THIS: THAT AT THE MOMENT WHEN THE RING CLOSED ABOUT HER EXISTENCE GERMANY
  NEGLECTED TO ORGANIZE HER DEFENSE WITH SUCH VIGOR THAT THROUGH THIS DEMONSTRATION
  OF HER POWER EITHER THE OTHERS, DESPITE THEIR ABOMINABLE PURPOSES, WOULD
  HAVE BEEN ROBBED OF THEIR WILL TO STRIKE, OR ELSE THE VICTORY OF THE REICH
  WOULD HAVE BEEN ASSURED.
  
  The guilt of the German people lies in this: that when in 1912 a criminal
  Reichstag in its unfathomable baseness and folly had refused to allow the
  raising of three army corps the people did not create for itself those army
  corps in the Reichstag's despite. With these additional 120,000 men the Battle
  of the Marne would have been won and the issue of the war decided. Two million
  fewer German heroes would have sunk into their graves. Who was it who in
  1912 as in 1918 struck its weapons from the hands of the German people? Who
  was it that in 1912, as in the last year of the war, infatuated the German
  people with his theory that if Germany throws down her arms the whole world
  will follow her example - who? - the democratic-Marxist Jew, who at the same
  hour incited and still today incites the others to arm and to subjugate
  'barbarous' Germany.
  
  But someone may perhaps yet raise the question whether it is expedient today
  to talk about the guilt for the war. Most assuredly we have the duty to talk
  about it! For the murderers of our Fatherland who all the years through have
  betrayed and sold Germany, they are the same men who, as the November criminals,
  have plunged us into the depths of misfortune. We have the duty to speak
  since in the near future, when we have gained power, we shall have the further
  duty of taking these creators of ruin, these clouts, these traitors to their
  State and of hanging them on the gallows to which they belong. Only let no
  one think that in them there has come a change of heart. On the contrary,
  these November scoundrels who still are free to go as they will in our midst,
  they are, even today, going against us. From the recognition of the facts
  comes the will to rise again. Two millions have remained on the field of
  battle. They, too, have their rights and not we, the survivors, alone. There
  are millions of orphans, of cripples, of widows in our midst. They, too,
  have rights. For the Germany of today not one of them died, not one of them
  became a cripple, an orphan, or a widow. We owe it to these millions that
  we build a new Germany!
