
  . . . THERE are two things which can unite men: common ideals and common
  criminality. We have inscribed upon our banner the great Germanic ideal and
  for that ideal we will fight to the last drop of our blood. We National
  Socialists have realized that from the international cesspool of infamy,
  from the Berlin of today, nothing can come to save the Fatherland. We know
  that two things alone will save us: first, the end of internal corruption,
  the cleansing out of all those who owe their existence simply to the protection
  of their party comrades. Through the most brutal ruthlessness towards all
  party officials we must restore our finances. It must be proved that the
  official is not a party man, but a specialist! The body of German officials
  must once more become what once it was. But the second and the most important
  point is that the day must come when a German government shall summon up
  the courage to declare to the Foreign Powers: 'The Treaty of Versailles is
  founded on a monstrous lie. We refuse to carry out its terms any longer.
  Do what you will! If you wish for war, go and get it! Then we shall see whether
  you can turn seventy million Germans into serfs and slaves!'
  
  If cowards cry out: 'But we have no arms!' that is neither here nor there!
  When the whole German people knows one will and one will only - to be free
  - in that hour we shall have the instrument with which to win our freedom.
  It matters not whether these weapons of ours are humane: if they gain us
  our freedom, they are justified before our conscience and before our God.
  When the eyes of German children look questioning into ours, when we see
  the suffering and distress of millions of our fellow-countrymen who without
  any fault of theirs have fallen into this frightful misfortune, then we laugh
  at the curses of the whole world, if from these curses there issues the freedom
  of our race.
  
  But since we know that today the German people consists for one-third of
  heroes, for another third of cowards, while the rest are traitors, as a condition
  of our freedom in respect of the outside world we would first cleanse our
  domestic life. The present 'United Front' has failed in that task. The day
  of another 'United Front' will come. But before that there must be a day
  of reckoning for those who for four and a half years have led us on their
  criminal ways. The domestic battle must come before the battle with the world
  without - the final decision between those who say 'We are Germans and proud
  of the fact' and those who do not wish to be Germans or who are not Germans
  at all. Our Movement is opposed with the cry 'The Republic is in danger!'
  Your Republic of the Ninth of November? In very truth it is: the
  November-Republic is in danger! How long, think you, you can maintain this
  'State? . . .
  
  Our Movement was not formed with any election in view, but in order to spring
  to the rescue of this people as its last help in the hour of greatest need,
  at the moment when in fear and despair it sees the approach of the Red Monster.
  The task of our Movement is still today not to prepare ourselves for any
  coming election but to prepare for the coming collapse of the Reich, so that
  when the old trunk falls the young fir-tree may be already standing. The
  Via dolorosa of Germany from Wirth, by way of Cuno to Stresemann, will end
  in the dictatorship of a Jewish lord of finance.... WE WANT TO BE THE SUPPORTERS
  OF THE DICTATORSHIP OF NATIONAL REASON, OF NATIONAL ENERGY, OF NATIONAL BRUTALITY
  AND RESOLUTION. GERMANY CAN BE SAVED ONLY THROUGH ACTION, WHEN THROUGH OUR
  TALKING HERE THE BANDAGE HAS BEEN TORN FROM THE EYES OF THE LAST OF THE BEFOOLED.
  It is from our Movement that redemption will come - that today is the feeling
  of millions. That has become almost a new religious faith! And there will
  be only two possibilities: either Berlin marches and ends up in Munich, or
  Munich marches and ends up in Berlin! A bolshevist North Germany and a
  nationalist Bavaria cannot exist side by side, and the greatest influence
  upon the fortunes of the German Reich will be his who shall restore the Reich....
  Either Germany sinks, and we through our despicable cowardice sink with it,
  or else we dare to enter on the fight against death and devil and rise up
  against the fate that has been planned for us. THEN WE SHALL SEE WHICH IS
  THE STRONGER: THE SPIRIT OF INTERNATIONAL JEWRY OR THE WILL OF GERMANY.
