
  . . . IF THE first of May is to be transferred in accordance with its true
  meaning from the life of Nature to the life of peoples, then it must symbolize
  the renewal of the body of a people which has fallen into senility. And in
  the life of peoples senility means internationalism. What is born of senility?
  Nothing, nothing at all. Whatever in human civilization has real value, that
  arose not out of internationalism, it sprang from the soul of a single people.
  When peoples have lost their creative vigor, then they become international
  Everywhere, wherever intellectual incapacity rules in the life of peoples,
  there internationalism appears. And it is no chance that the promoter of
  this cast of thought is a people which itself can boast of no real creative
  force - the Jewish people....
  
  So the first of May can be only a glorification of the national creative
  will over against the conception of international disintegration, of the
  liberation of the nation's spirit and of its economic outlook from the infection
  of internationalism. That is in the last resort the question of the restoration
  to health of peoples . . . and the question arises: Is the German oak ever
  destined to see another springtime? And that is where the mission of our
  Movement begins. We have the strength to conquer that which the autumn has
  brought upon us. Our will is to be National Socialists - not national in
  the current sense of the word - not national by halves. We are National Socialist
  fanatics, not dancers on the tight-rope of moderation!
  
  There are three words which many use without a thought which for us are no
  catch-phrases: Love, Faith, and Hope. We National Socialists wish to love
  our Fatherland, we wish to learn to love it, to learn to love it jealously,
  to love it alone and to suffer no other idol to stand by its side. We know
  only one interest and that is the interest of our people.
  
  We are fanatical in our love for our people, and we are anxious that so-called
  'national governments' should be conscious of that fact. We can go as loyally
  as a dog with those who share our sincerity, but we will pursue with fanatical
  hatred the man who believes that he can play tricks with this love of ours.
  We cannot go with governments who look two ways at once, who squint both
  towards the Right and towards the Left. We are straightforward: it must be
  either love or hate.
  
  We have faith in the rights of our people, the rights which have existed
  time out of mind. We protest against the view that every other nation should
  have rights - and we have none. We must learn to make our own this blind
  faith in the rights of our people, in the necessity of devoting ourselves
  to the service of these rights; we must make our own the faith that gradually
  victory must be granted us if only we are fanatical enough. And from this
  love and from this faith there emerges for us the idea of hope. When others
  doubt and hesitate for the future of Germany - we have no doubts. We have
  both the hope and the faith that Germany will and must once more become great
  and mighty.
  
  We have both the hope and the faith that the day will come on which Germany
  shall stretch from Koenigsberg to Strassburg, and from Hamburg to Vienna.
  
  We have faith that one day Heaven will bring the Germans back into a Reich
  over which there shall be no Soviet star, no Jewish star of David, but above
  that Reich there shall be the symbol of German labor - the Swastika. And
  that will mean that the first of May has truly come.
