
  . . . ECONOMICS is a secondary matter. World history teaches us that no people
  became great through economics: it was economics that brought them to their
  ruin. A people died when its race was disintegrated. Germany, too, did not
  become great through economics.
  
  A people that in its own life [volkisch] has lost honor becomes politically
  defenseless, and then becomes enslaved also in the economic sphere.
  
  Internationalization today means only Judaization. We in Germany have come
  to this: that a sixty-million people sees its destiny to lie at the will
  of a few dozen Jewish bankers. This was possible only because our civilization
  had first been Judaized. The undermining of the German conception of personality
  by catchwords had begun long before. Ideas such as 'Democracy,' 'Majority,'
  'Conscience of the World,' 'World Solidarity,' 'World Peace,' 'Internationality
  of Art,' etc., disintegrate our race-consciousness, breed cowardice, and
  so today we are bound to say that the simple Turk is more man than we are.
  
  No salvation is possible until the bearer of disunion, the Jew, has been
  rendered powerless to harm.
  
  1. We must call to account the November criminals of 1918. It cannot be that
  two million Germans should have fallen in vain and that afterwards one should
  sit down as friends at the same table with traitors. No, we do not pardon,
  we demand - Vengeance!
  
  2. The dishonoring of the nation must cease. For betrayers of their Fatherland
  and informers the gallows is the proper place. Our streets and squares shall
  once more bear the names of our heroes; they shall not be named after Jews.
  In the Question of Guilt we must proclaim the truth.
  
  3. The administration of the State must be cleared of the rabble which is
  fattened at the stall of the parties.
  
  4. The present laxity in the fight against usury must be abandoned. Here
  the fitting punishment is the same as that for the betrayers of their Fatherland.
  
  5. WE MUST DEMAND A GREAT ENLIGHTENMENT ON THE SUBJECT OF THE PEACE TREATY.
  WITH THOUGHTS OF LOVE? NO! BUT IN HOLY HATRED AGAINST THOSE WHO HAVE RUINED
  US.
  
  6. The lies which would veil from us our misfortunes must cease. The fraud
  of the present money-madness must be shown up. That will stiffen the necks
  of us all.
  
  7. AS FOUNDATION FOR A NEW CURRENCY THE PROPERTY OF THOSE WHO ARE NOT OF
  OUR BLOOD MUST DO SERVICE. If families who have lived in Germany for a thousand
  years are now expropriated, we must do the same to the Jewish usurers.
  
  8. WE DEMAND IMMEDIATE EXPULSION OF ALL JEWS WHO HAVE ENTERED GERMANY SINCE
  1914, and of all those, too, who through trickery on the Stock Exchange or
  through other shady transactions have gained their wealth.
  
  9. The housing scarcity must be relieved through energetic action; houses
  must be granted to those who deserve them. Eisner said in 1918 that we had
  no right to demand the return of our prisoners - he was only saying openly
  what all Jews were thinking. People who so think must feel how life tastes
  in a concentration camp!
  
  Extremes must be fought by extremes. Against the infection of materialism,
  against the Jewish pestilence we must hold aloft a flaming ideal. And if
  others speak of the World and Humanity we say the Fatherland - and only the
  Fatherland!
