
  ...IN THE Bible we find the text, 'That which is neither hot nor cold will
  I spew out of my mouth.' This utterance of the great Nazarene has kept its
  profound validity until the present day. He who would pursue the golden mean
  must surrender the hope of achieving the great and the greatest aims. Until
  the present day the half-hearted and the lukewarm have remained the curse
  of Germany....
  
  To the half-heartedness and weakness of the parties in Parliament was added
  the half-heartedness of Governments... Everything stood under the sign of
  half-heartedness and lukewarmness, even the fight for existence in the World
  War and still more the conclusion of peace. And now the continuation of the
  half-hearted policy of those days holds the field. The people, inwardly united
  in the hard struggle-in the trenches there were neither parties nor
  Confessions-has been torn asunder through the economics of profiteers and
  knaves. Appeasement and the settlement of differences would certainly soon
  be there if only one were to hang the whole crew. But profiteers and knaves
  are, of course, 'Citizens of the State,' and what is more important still,
  they are adherents of the religion which is hallowed by the Talmud.
  
  EVEN TODAY WE ARE THE LEAST LOVED PEOPLE ON EARTH. A world of foes is ranged
  against us and the German must still today make up his mind whether he intends
  to be a free soldier or a white slave. THE ONLY POSSIBLE CONDITIONS UNDER
  WHICH A GERMAN STATE CAN DEVELOP AT ALL MUST THEREFORE BE: THE UNIFICATION
  OF ALL GERMANS IN EUROPE, education towards a national consciousness, and
  readiness to place the whole national strength without exception in the service
  of the nation. . . .
  
  NO ECONOMIC POLICY IS POSSIBLE WITHOUT A SWORD, no industrialization without
  power. Today we have no longer any sword grasped in our fist-how can we have
  a successful economic policy? England has fully recognized this primary maxim
  in the healthy life of States; for centuries England has acted on the principle
  of converting economic strength into political power, while conversely political
  power in its turn must protect economic life. The instinct of self preservation
  can build up economics, but we sought to preserve World Peace instead of
  the interests of the nation, instead of defending the economic life of the
  nation with the sword and of ruthlessly championing those conditions which
  were essential for the life of the people.
  
  Three years ago I declared in this same room that the collapse of the German
  national consciousness must carry with it into the abyss the economic life
  of Germany as well. For liberation something more is necessary than an economic
  policy, something more than industry: IF A PEOPLE IS TO BECOME FREE IT NEEDS
  PRIDE AND WILL-POWER, DEFIANCE, HATE, HATE, AND ONCE AGAIN HATE....
  
  The spirit comes not down from above, that spirit which is to purify Germany,
  which with its iron besom is to purify the great sty of democracy. To do
  that is the task of our Movement. The Movement must not rust away in Parliament,
  it must not spend itself in superfluous battles of words, but the banner
  with the white circle and the black Swastika will be hoisted over the whole
  of Germany on the day which shall mark the liberation of our whole people.
