
  . . . IT IS a battle which began nearly 120 years ago, at the moment when the Jew was granted citizen rights in the
  European States. The political emancipation of the Jews was the beginning of an attack of delirium. For thereby they
  were given full citizen rights and equality to a people which was much more clearly and definitely a race apart than
  all others, that has always formed and will form a State within the State. That did not happen perhaps at one blow,
  but it came about as things come about today and always do come about: first a little finger, then a second and a
  third, and so bit by bit until at last a people that in the eighteenth century still appeared completely alien had won
  equal citizen-rights with ourselves.
  
  And it was precisely the same in the economic sphere. The vast process of the industrialization of the peoples meant
  the confluence of great masses of workmen in the towns. Thus great hordes of people arose, and these, more's the pity,
  were not properly dealt with by those whose moral duty it was to concern themselves for their welfare. Parallel with
  this was a gradual 'moneyfication' of the whole of the nation's labor-strength. 'Share-capital' was in the
  ascendant, and thus bit by bit the Stock Exchange came to control the whole national economy.
  
  The directors of these institutions were, and are without exception, Jews. I say 'without exception,' for the few non-Jews
  who had a share in them are in the last resort nothing but screens, shop-window Christians, whom one needs in order, for
  the sake of the masses, to keep up the appearance that these institutions were after all founded as a natural outcome of
  the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike, and were not, as was the fact, institutions which correspond only
  with the essential characteristics of the Jewish people and are the outcome of those characteristics.
  
  Then Europe stood at the parting of the ways. Europe began to divide into two halves, into West Europe and Central and
  Eastern Europe. At first Western Europe took the lead in the process of industrialization. Especially in England crowds
  of farm laborers, sons of farmers, or even ruined farmers themselves, streamed into the towns and there formed a new
  fourth estate.
  
  But here one fact is of more importance than we are accustomed to admit: this England, like France, had
  relatively few Jews. And the consequence of that was that the great masses, concentrated in the towns, did not come
  into immediate contact with this alien nation, and thus feelings of aversion which must otherwise necessarily have
  arisen did not find sufficient nourishment for their development. In the end the fifty or sixty thousand Jews in
  England - there was hardly that number in England then - with supreme ease were able so to 'Europeanize' themselves
  that they remained hidden from the primitive eye of the ordinary member of the public and as 'Captains of Industry,'
  and especially as representatives of capital on a large scale, they could appear no longer as foreigners but
  themselves became Englishmen.
  
  This accounts for the fact that anti-Semitism in these States could never attain to any
  native vigor; for the same is true of France. And precisely for this reason in these countries it was possible to
  introduce the system which we have to represent to ourselves under the concept of 'Democracy.' There it was possible to
  create a State-form whose meaning could only be the mastery of the herd over the intelligentsia, the mastery over true
  energy through the dead weight of massed numbers. In other words: it must be supremely easy for the Jewish
  intelligentsia, small in numbers and therefore completely hidden in the body of the British people, so to work upon
  the masses that the latter, quite unconscious of whom they were obeying, in the end did but serve the purposes of this
  small stratum of society.
  
  Through the press propaganda, through the use of the organs of information, it was
  possible in England to found the great model parties. Already in those early days they saw to it shrewdly that
  here were always two or three groups apparently hostile to each other, but in fact all hanging on a gold thread, the
  whole designed to take account of a human characteristic - that the longer a man possesses an object, the more readily
  he grows tired of it. He craves something new: therefore one needs two parties. The one is in office, the other in
  opposition. When the one has played itself out, then the opposition party comes into power, and the party which has
  had its day is now in its turn the opposition. After twenty years the new party itself has once more played itself out
  and the game begins afresh. In truth this is a highly ingenious mill in which the interests of a nation are ground
  very small. As everyone knows, this system is given some such name as 'Self-Government of a People.'
  
  Besides this we always find two great catchwords, 'Freedom' and 'Democracy,' used, I might say, as signboards.
  'Freedom': under that term is understood, at least amongst those in authority who in fact carry on the Government, the
  possibility of an unchecked plundering of the masses of the people to which no resistance can be offered. The masses
  themselves naturally believe that under the term 'freedom' they possess the right to a quite peculiar freedom of
  motion - freedom to move the tongue and to say what they choose, freedom to move about the streets, etc. A bitter
  deception!
  
  And the same is true of democracy. In general even in the early days both England and France had already been bound
  with the fetters of slavery. With, I might say, a brazen security these States are fettered with Jewish chains....
  
  In consequence of this widespread aversion it was more difficult for the Jew to spread infection in the political
  sphere, and especially so since traditionally loyalty was centered in a person: the form of the State was a monarchy,
  and power did not lie with an irresponsible majority. Thus the Jew saw that here it was possible for an enlightened
  despotism to arise based upon the army, the bureaucracy, and the masses of the people still unaffected by the Jewish
  poison.
  
  The intelligentsia at that time was almost exclusively German, big business and the new industries were
  in German hands, while the last reservoir of a people's strength, the peasantry, was throughout healthy. In such
  conditions if, as industry grew, a fourth estate was formed in the towns, there was the danger that this fourth estate
  might ally itself with the monarchy, and thus with its support there might arise a popular monarchy or
  a popular 'Kaisertum' which would be ready and willing to give a mortal blow to those powers of international
  supra-State finance which were at that time beginning to grow in influence. This was not impossible: in the history
  of Germany princes had from time to time found themselves forced, as in Brandenburg, to turn against the nobility and
  seek popular support.
  
  But this possibility constituted a grave danger for Jewry. If the great masses of the new industrialized workmen had
  come into Nationalist hands and like a true social leaven had penetrated the whole nation, if the liberation of the
  different estates had followed step by step in an organic development and the State had later looked to them
  for support, then there would have been created what many hoped for in November, 1918, viz., a national social State.
  For Socialism in itself is anything but an international creation. As a noble conception it has indeed grown up
  exclusively in Aryan hearts: it owes its intellectual glories only to Aryan brains. It is entirely alien to the
  Jew.
  
  The Jew will always be the born champion of private capital in its worst form, that of unchecked
  exploitation.... Voltaire, as well as Rousseau, together with our German Fichte and many another - they are all
  without exception united in their recognition that the Jew is not only a foreign element differing in his essential
  character, which is utterly harmful to the nature of the Aryan, but that the Jewish people in itself stands against
  us as our deadly foe and so will stand against us always and for all time.
  
  The master-stroke of the Jew was to claim the leadership of the fourth estate: he founded the Movement both of the
  Social Democrats and the Communists. His policy was twofold: he had his 'apostles' in both political camps. Amongst the
  parties of the Right he encouraged those features which were most repugnant to the people - the passion for money,
  unscrupulous methods in trade which were employed so ruthlessly as to give rise to the proverb 'Business, too,
  marches over corpses.' And the Jew attacked the parties of the Right. Jews wormed their way into the families of the
  upper classes: it was from the Jews that the latter took their wives. The result was that in a short time it was
  precisely the ruling class which became in its character completely estranged from its own people.
  
  And this fact gave the Jew his opportunity with the parties of the Left. Here he played the part of the common
  demagogue. Two means enabled him to drive away in disgust the whole intelligentsia of the nation from the leadership
  of the workers. First: his international attitude, for the native intelligence of the country is prepared to make
  sacrifices, it will do anything for the life of the people, but it cannot believe in the mad view that through the
  denial of that national life, through a refusal to defend the rights of one's own people, through the breaking down of
  the national resistance to the foreigner, it is possible to raise up a people and make it happy. That it cannot do, and
  so it remained at a distance.
  
  And the Jew's second instrument was the Marxist theory in and for itself. For
  directly one went on to assert that property as such is theft, directly one deserted the obvious formula that only
  the natural wealth of a country can and should be common property, but that that which a man creates or gains through
  his honest labor is his own, immediately the economic intelligentsia with its nationalist outlook could, here too,
  no longer co-operate: for this intelligentsia was bound to say to itself that this theory meant the collapse of any
  human civilization whatever. Thus the Jew succeeded in isolating this new movement of the workers from all the
  nationalist elements....
  
  More and more so to influence the masses that he persuaded those of the Right that the faults of the Left were the
  faults of the German workman, and similarly he made it appear to those of the Left that the faults of the Right
  were simply the faults of the so-called 'Bourgeois,' and neither side noticed that on both sides the faults were the
  result of a scheme planned by alien devilish agitators. And only so is it possible to explain how this dirty joke of
  world history could come to be that Stock Exchange Jews should become the leaders of a Workers Movement. It is a
  gigantic fraud: world history has seldom seen its like.
  
  And then we must ask ourselves: what are the final aims of this development?
  
  So soon as millions of men have had it hammered into them that they are so oppressed and enslaved that it matters not
  what their personal attitude may be to their people, their State, or economic life, then a kind of passive resistance
  must result, which sooner or later will do fatal damage to the national economy. Through the preaching of the Marxist
  economic theory the national economy must go to ruin. We see the results in Russia: the end of the whole economic life of
  the State: the handing over of the community to the international world of finance. And the process is furthered
  through the organization of the 'political strike.' Often there are no adequate economic grounds for a strike, but
  there are always political grounds and plenty of them.
  
  And to this must be added the practical political sabotage of the State, since the thought of the individual is
  concentrated on the idea of international solidarity. It is clear that a nation's economic life depends upon the
  strength of a national State: it does not live on such phrases as 'Appeasement of the peoples' or 'Freedom of the
  Peoples.'
  
  At the moment when no people supports the economic life of a nation, ready to give it its protection, at that moment
  economic life collapses. The breaking in pieces of a nation's strength is the end of a nation's prosperity, the
  national existence must cease altogether.
  
  And one can see constantly how wonderfully the Stock Exchange Jew and the leader of the workers, how the Stock
  Exchange organ and the journal of the workers, co-operate. They both pursue one common policy and a single aim. Moses
  Kohn on the one side encourages his association to refuse the workers' demands, while his brother Isaac in the factory
  incites the masses and shouts, 'Look at them! they only want to oppress you! Shake off your fetters....'
  
  His brother takes care that the fetters are well and truly forged. The Stock Exchange organ seeks without
  intermission to encourage fevered speculation and unparalleled corners in grain and in
  the food of the people, while the workmen's newspaper lets off all its guns on the masses, telling them that bread is
  dearer and this, that, and the other is dearer: up Proletarians! endure it no longer-down with . . .
  
  How long can this process last? It means the utter destruction not only of economic life, but of the people. It
  is clear that all these apostles who talk their tongues out of their heads, but who spend the night in the Hotel
  Excelsior, travel in express trains, and spend their leave for their health in Nice - these people do not exert their
  energies for love of the people. No, the people is not to profit, it shall merely be brought into dependence on these
  men. The backbone of its independence, its own economic life, is to be destroyed, that it may the more surely
  relapse into the golden fetters of the perpetual interest-slavery of the Jewish race. And this process will
  end when suddenly out of the masses someone arises who seizes the leadership, finds other comrades and fans into
  flame the passions which have been held in check and looses them against the deceivers.
  
  That is the lurking danger, and the Jew can meet it in one way only - by destroying the hostile national
  intelligentsia. That is the inevitable ultimate goal of the Jew in his revolution. And this aim he must pursue; he knows
  well enough his economics brings no blessing: his is no master people: he is an exploiter: the Jews are a people of
  robbers. He has never founded any civilization, though he has destroyed civilizations by the hundred. He possesses
  nothing of his own creation to which he can point.
  
  Everything that he has is stolen. Foreign peoples, foreign workmen build him his temples, it is foreigners who create
  and work for him: it is foreigners who shed their blood for him. He knows no 'people's army': he has only hired
  mercenaries who are ready to go to death on his behalf. He has no art of his own: bit by bit he has stolen it all from
  the other peoples or has watched them at work and then made his copy. He does not even know how merely to preserve the
  precious things which others have created: as he turns the treasures over in his hand they are transformed into dirt
  and dung. He knows that he cannot maintain any State for long. That is one of the differences between him and the
  Aryan. True, the Aryan also has dominated other peoples. But how? He entered on the land, he cleared the forests; out of
  wildernesses he has created civilizations, and he has not used the others for his own interests, he has, so far as
  their capacities permitted, incorporated them into his State and through him art and science were brought to flower. In
  the last resort it was the Aryan and the Aryan alone who could form States and could set them on their path to future
  greatness.
  
  All that the Jew cannot do. And because he cannot do it, therefore all his revolutions must be 'international.' They
  must spread as a pestilence spreads. He can build no State and say 'See here, Here stands the State, a model for all.
  Now copy us!' He must take care that the plague does not die, that it is not limited to one place, or else in a short
  time this plague-hearth would burn itself out. So he is forced to bring every mortal thing to an international
  expansion. For how long? Until the whole world sinks in ruins and brings him down with it in the midst of the ruins.
  
  That process today in Russia is practically complete. The whole of present-day Russia has nothing to show beyond a
  ruined civilization, a colony ripe for development through alien capital, and even this capital in order to supply
  resources in labor for its practical work must introduce Aryan intellects, since for this again the Jew is useless.
  Here, too, he is all rapacity, never satisfied. He knows no ordered economy, he knows no ordered body of administrators.
  Over there in Russia he is laying his hands on everything. They take the noble's diamonds to help 'the People.' The
  diamonds then stray into foreign societies and are no more seen. He seizes to himself the treasures of the churches,
  but not to feed the people: oh no! Everything wanders away and leaves not a trace behind. In his greed he has become
  quite senseless: he can keep hold of nothing: he has only within him the instinct for destruction, and so he himself
  collapses with the treasure that he has destroyed.
  
  It is a tragic fate: we have often grown excited over the death of a criminal: if an anarchist is shot in Spain we
  raise a mighty howl over 'the sacrifice of valuable human blood' . . . and here in the East thirty million human beings
  are being slowly martyred - done to death, some on the scaffold, some by machine guns . . . millions upon millions
  through starvation.... A whole people is dying, and now we can perhaps understand how it was possible that formerly all
  the civilizations of Mesopotamia disappeared without a trace so that one can only with difficulty find in the desert sand
  the remains of these cities. We see how in our own day whole countries die out under this scourge of God, and we see how
  this scourge is threatening Germany, too, and how with us our own people in mad infatuation is contributing to bring
  upon itself the same yoke, the same misery.
  
  We know that the Revolution which began in 1918 has covered perhaps but the first third of its course. Two things,
  however, there are which must scourge it forward upon its way: economic causes and political causes. On the economic
  side, the ever-growing distress, and in the political sphere, are not nearly all Germans in their hearts - let each
  one admit it - in despair when they consider the situation which leaves us quite defenseless in face of a Europe which
  is so hostile to Germany? AND WHY IS EUROPE HOSTILE? WE SEE HOW OVER THERE IN THIS OTHER EUROPE IT IS NOT THE PEOPLES
  WHICH AGITATE AGAINST US, IT IS THE SECRET POWER OF THE ORGANIZED PRESS WHICH CEASELESSLY POURS NEW POISON INTO THE
  HEARTS OF THESE PEOPLES.
  
  And who are then these bandits of the press? The brothers and the relatives of the publishers of our own newspapers.
  And the capital source which provides the energy which here - and there - drives them forward is the Jewish dream of World
  Supremacy.
  
  Today the idea of international solidarity has lost its force, one can still bring men out of the factories, but
  only by means of terrorism. If you ask for an honest answer the worker will confess that he no longer believes in this
  international solidarity. And the belief in the so-called reasonableness of the other peoples has gone too. How often
  have we been told that reason will lead them not to be too hard with us: true, reason should have moved them thus, but
  what did move them had nothing to do with reason. For here there is no question of the thought of reasonable peoples:
  it is the thought of a wild beast, tearing, raging in its unreason, that drives all of them to the same ruin as that
  to which we ourselves are driven.
  
  So the masses of the people in Germany are becoming, in the political sphere, completely lost. Yet here and there people
  are beginning to get some practice in criticism. Slowly, cautiously, and yet with a certain accuracy the finger is
  being placed on the real wound of our people. And thus one comes to realize: if only this development goes on for a
  time, it might be possible that from Germany the light should come which is destined to light both Germany and the
  world to their salvation. And at that point the everlasting lie begins to work against us with every means in its
  power....
  
  It is said, if one criticizes the state of affairs to which we have been brought today, that one is a reactionary, a
  monarchist, a pan-German. I ask you what would probably have been the state of Germany today if during these three years
  there had been no criticism at all? I believe that in fact there has been far, far too little criticism. OUR PEOPLE
  UNFORTUNATELY IS MUCH TOO UNCRITICAL, OR OTHERWISE IT WOULD LONG AGO HAVE NOT ONLY SEEN THROUGH MANY THINGS, BUT WOULD
  HAVE SWEPT THEM AWAY WITH ITS FIST! The crisis is developing towards its culmination. The day is not far distant when,
  for the reasons which I have stated, the German Revolution must be carried forward another step. The leaders know all
  too well that things cannot always go on as they are going today. One may raise prices ten times by 100 per cent, but
  it is doubtful if in the end even a German will accept a milliard of marks for his day's wage if in the last resort
  with his milliard-wage he must still starve. It is a question whether one will be able to keep up this great
  fraud upon the nation. There will come a day when this must stop - and therefore one must build for that day, before it
  comes.
  
  And so now Germany is reaching that stage which Russia has drunk to the lees. Now in one last stupendous assault they
  will finally crush all criticism, all opposition, no, rather whatever honesty is still left to us, and that they will do
  the more rapidly the more clearly they see that the masses are beginning to understand one thing - National Socialist
  teaching.
  
  Whether for the moment it comes to them under that name or under another, the fact is that everywhere more and more it
  is making headway. Today all these folk cannot yet belong to a single party, but, wherever you go, in Germany, yes almost
  in the whole world, you find already millions of thinking men who know that a State can be built only on a social
  foundation and they know also that the deadly foe of every social conception is the international Jew.
  
  Every truly national idea is in the last resort social, i.e., he who is prepared so completely to adopt the cause of
  his people that he really knows no higher ideal than the prosperity of this - his own - people, he who has so taken to
  heart the meaning of our great song 'Deutschland, Deutschland uber alles,' that nothing in this world stands
  for him higher than this Germany, people and land, land and people, he is a Socialist! And he who in this people
  sympathizes with the poorest of its citizens, who in this people sees in every individual a valuable member of the
  whole community, and who recognizes that this community can flourish only when it is formed not of rulers and oppressed
  but when all according to their capacities fulfill their duty to their Fatherland and the community of the people
  and are valued accordingly, he who seeks to preserve the native vigor, the strength, and the youthful energy of the
  millions of working men, and who above all is concerned that our precious possession, our youth, should not before its
  time be used up in unhealthy harmful work - he is not merely a Socialist, but he is also National in the highest sense of
  that word.
  
  It is the teaching of these facts which appears to the Jews as leaders of the Revolution today to constitute a
  threatening danger. And it is precisely this which more than anything else makes the Jew wish to get in his blow as soon
  as possible. For one thing he knows quite well: in the last resort there is only one danger which he has to fear-and
  that danger is this young Movement.
  
  He knows the old parties. They are easily satisfied. Only endow them with a few seats as ministers or with similar
  posts and they are ready to go along with you. And in especial he knows one thing: they are so innocently stupid.
  In their case the truth of the old saying is proved afresh every day: 'Those whom the gods wish to destroy, they first
  strike with blindness.' They have been struck with blindness: therefore it follows that the gods wish to
  destroy them. Only look at these parties and their leaders, Stresemann and the rest of them. They are indeed not
  dangerous. They never go to the roots of the evil: they all still think that with forbearance, with humanity, with
  accommodation they can fight a battle which has not its equal in this world. Through gentleness they think that they
  must demonstrate to the enemy of the Left that they are ready for appeasement so as to stay the deadly cancerous
  ulcer through a policy of moderation.
  
  No! A thousand times No! Here there are only two possibilities: either victory or defeat!
  
  What today is the meaning of these great preparations for the decisive battle on the part of bolshevist Judaism?-
  
  To make the nation defenseless in arms and to make the people defenseless in spirit.
  
  Two great aims!
  
  Abroad Germany is already humiliated. The State trembles before every French Negro-captain, the nation is no longer
  dangerous. And within Germany they have seen to it that arms should be taken away from the decent elements of the people
  and that in their stead Russian-Jewish-bolshevist bands should be armed. Only one thing remains still to do: viz.,
  the muzzling of the spirit, above all the arrest of the evil 'agitators' - that is the name they give to those who dare to
  tell the people the truth. Not only are their organizations to be known to all, but the masses are to be incited against
  their persons. Just as the Jew could once incite the mob of Jerusalem against Christ, so today he must succeed in
  inciting folk who have been duped into madness to attack those who, God's truth! seek to deal with this people in
  utter honesty and sincerity. And so he begins to intimidate them, and he knows that this pressure in itself is enough to
  shut the mouths of hundreds, yes, of thousands. For they think, if I only hold my tongue, then I shall be safe in
  case they come into power. No, my friend. The only difference will be that I may hang perhaps still talking,
  while you will hang - in silence. Here, too, Russia can give us countless examples, and with us it will be the same
  story.
  
  We know that the so-called 'Law for the Protection of the Republic' which comes from Berlin today is nothing else than
  a means for reducing all criticism to silence. We know, too, that no effort will be spared so that the last outstanding
  personalities - those who within Germany foresee the coming of disaster - shall in good time disappear. And to that end the
  population of North Germany will be scourged into opposition to Bavaria with every lie and every misrepresentation that
  comes to hand. Up there they have the feeling that in one corner of the Reich the spirit of the German people is not
  yet broken. And that is the point to which we National Socialists have to grapple ourselves. We National Socialists
  are, God's truth! perhaps the most loyal, the most devoted of all men to our German Fatherland. For three years we have
  waged a war, often against death and devil, but always only for our German Fatherland. We got so far that at the last,
  as crown of all our labors, we had to land in prison. But in spite of everything there is one thing we would say: We do
  make a distinction between a Government and the German Fatherland. When today here in the Landtag or in the
  Reichstag at Berlin some lousy half-Asiatic youth casts in our teeth the charge that we have no loyalty to the Reich, I
  beg you do not distress yourselves. The Bavarian people has sealed its loyalty to the Reich with its countless regiments
  which fought for the Reich and often sank under the earth two or three times. We are convinced, and that in the last
  resort is our one great faith, that out of this bitterest distress and this utter misery the German Reich will rise
  again, but not as now, not as the offspring of wretchedness and misery - we shall possess once again a true German Reich
  of freedom and of honor, a real Fatherland of the whole German people and not an asylum for alien swindlers. There
  is today constant talk about 'Federalism,' etc. I beg you not to abuse the Prussians while at the same time you grovel
  before the Jews, but show yourselves stiff-necked against the folk of Berlin. And if you do that, then you will have
  on your side in the whole of Germany millions and millions of Germans, whether they be Prussians or men of Baden,
  Wurttembergers, men of Saxony, or Germans of Austria. Now is the hour to stand stiff-necked and resist to the last!
  
  We National Socialists who for three years have done nothing but preach - abused and insulted by all, by some
  mocked and scorned, by others traduced and slandered - we cannot retreat! For us there is only one path which leads
  straight ahead. We know that the fight which now is blazing will be a hard struggle. It will not be fought out in the
  court of the Reich at Leipzig, it will not be fought out in a cabinet at Berlin, it will be fought out through those
  factors which in their hard reality have ever up to the present time made world history. I heard recently in the
  speech of a minister that the rights of a State cannot be set aside through simple majority decisions, but only
  through treaties. BISMARCK ONCE USED DIFFERENT LANGUAGE ON THIS SUBJECT: HE THOUGHT THAT THE DESTINIES OF PEOPLES COULD
  BE DETERMINED NEITHER THROUGH MAJORITY DECISIONS NOR THROUGH TREATIES, BUT ONLY THROUGH BLOOD AND IRON.
  
  On one point there should be no doubt: we will not let the Jews slit our gullets and not defend ourselves. Today in
  Berlin they may already be arranging their festival-dinners with the Jewish hangmen of Soviet Russia - that they will
  never do here. They may today begin to set up the Cheka - the Extraordinary Commission - in Germany, they may give it free
  scope, we surrender to such a Jewish Commission never! We have the conviction, firm as a rock, that, if in this State
  seven million men are determined to stand by their 'No' to the very last, the evil specter will collapse into
  nothingness in the rest of the Reich. For what Germany needs today, what Germany longs for ardently, is a symbol of
  power, and strength.
  
  So as I come to the end of my speech I want to ask something of those among you who are young. And for that
  there is a very special reason. The old parties train their youth in the gift of the gab, we prefer to train them to use
  their bodily strength. For I tell you: the young man who does not find his way to the place where in the last resort
  the destiny of his people is most truly represented, only studies philosophy and in a time like this buries himself
  behind his books or sits at home by the fire, he is no German youth! I call upon you! Join our Storm Divisions! And
  however many insults and slanders you may hear if you do join, you all know that the Storm Divisions have been formed
  for our protection, for your protection, and at the same time not merely for the protection of the Movement, but for
  the protection of a Germany that is to be. If you are reviled and insulted, good luck to you, my boys! You have
  the good fortune already at eighteen or nineteen years of age to be hated by the greatest of scoundrels. What others
  can win only after a lifetime of toil, this highest gift of distinguishing between the honest man and the brigand, falls
  as a piece of luck into your lap while you are but youths. You can be assured that the more they revile you, the more
  we respect you. We know that if you were not there, none of us would make another speech. We know, we see clearly that
  our Movement would be cudgelled down if you did not protect it! You are the defense of a Movement that is called one day
  to remodel Germany in revolutionary fashion from its very foundations in order that there may come to birth what
  perhaps so many expected on the ninth of November: a German Reich and a Germanic and, so far as in us lies, a German
  Republic.
  
  Every battle must be fought to the end - better that it come early than late. And he ever stands most securely who from
  the first goes to the fight with the greatest confidence. And this highest confidence we can carry with us in our
  hearts. For he who on our side is today the leader of the German people, God's truth! he has nothing to win but
  perhaps only everything to lose. He who today fights on our side cannot win great laurels, far less can he win great
  material goods - it is more likely that he will end up in jail. He who today is leader must be an idealist, if only
  for the reason that he leads those against whom it would seem that everything has conspired.
  
  But in that very fact there lies an inexhaustible source of strength. The conviction that our Movement is not sustained
  by money or the lust for gold, but only by our love for the people, that must ever give us fresh heart, that must ever
  fill us with courage for the fray.
  
  And as my last word, take with you this assurance: if this battle should not come, never would Germany win peace.
  Germany would decay and at the best would sink to ruin like a rotting corpse. But that is not our destiny. We do not
  believe that this misfortune which today our God sends over Germany has no meaning: it is surely the scourge which
  should and shall drive us to a new greatness, to a new power and glory, to a Germany which for the first time shall
  fulfill that which in their hearts millions of the best of our fellow countrymen have hoped for through the centuries
  and the millennia, to the Germany of the German people!
