
  . . . I REJECT the word 'Proletariat.' The Jew who coined the word meant
  by 'Proletariat,' not the oppressed, but those who work with their hands.
  And those who work with their intellects are stigmatized bluntly as 'Bourgeois.'
  It is not the character of a man's life which forms the basis of this
  classification, it is simply the occupation - whether a man works with his
  brain or with his body. And in this turbulent mass of the hand-workers the
  Jew recognized a new power which might perhaps be his instrument for the
  gaining of that which is his ultimate goal: World supremacy, the destruction
  of the national States.
  
  And while the Jew 'organizes' these masses, he organizes business, too, at
  the same time. Business was depersonalized, i.e., Judaized. Business lost
  the Aryan character of work: it became an object of speculation. Master and
  man were torn asunder . . . and he who created this class division was the
  same person who led the masses in their opposition to this class division,
  led them not against his Jewish brethren, but against the last remnants of
  independent national economic life.
  
  And these remnants, the bourgeoisie which also was already Judaized, resisted
  the great masses who were knocking at the door and demanding better conditions
  of life. And so the Jewish leaders succeeded in hammering into the minds
  of the masses the Marxist propaganda: 'Your deadly foe is the bourgeoisie;
  if he were not there, you would be free.' If it had not been for the boundless
  blindness and stupidity of our bourgeoisie the Jew would never have become
  the leader of the German working-classes. And the ally of this stupidity
  was the pride of the 'better stratum' of society which thought it would degrade
  itself if it condescended to stoop to the level of the 'Plebe.' The millions
  of our German fellow countrymen would never have been alienated from their
  people if the leading strata of society had shown any care for their welfare.
  
  You must say farewell to the hope that you can expect any action from the
  parties of the Right on behalf of the freedom of the German people. The most
  elementary factor is lacking: the will, the courage, the energy. Where then
  can any strength still be found within the German people? It is to be found,
  as always, in the great masses: THERE ENERGY IS SLUMBERING AND IT ONLY AWAITS
  THE MAN WHO WILL SUMMON IT FROM ITS PRESENT SLUMBER AND WILL HURL IT INTO
  THE GREAT BATTLE FOR THE DESTINY OF THE GERMAN RACE.
  
  The battle which alone can liberate Germany will be fought out with the forces
  which well up from the great masses. Without the help of the German workingman
  you will never regain a German Reich. Not in our political salons lies the
  strength of the nation, but in the hand, in the brain, and in the will of
  the great masses. Now as ever: Liberation does not come down from above,
  it will spring up from below.... If we today make the highest demands upon
  everyone, that is only in order that we may give back to him and to his child
  the highest gift: Freedom and the respect of the rest of the world....
  
  The parties of the Right have lost all energy: they see the flood coming,
  but their one longing is just for once in their lives to form a Government.
  Unspeakably incapable, utterly lacking in energy, cowards all - such are
  all these bourgeois parties and that at the moment when the nation needs
  heroes -not chatterers.
  
  In the Left there is somewhat more energy, but it is used for the ruin of
  Germany. The Communists on principle reject the discipline imposed by the
  State: in its stead they preach party discipline: they reject the administration
  of the State as a bureaucracy, while they fall on their knees before the
  bureaucracy of their own Movement. There is arising a State within the State
  which stands in deadly enmity against the State which we know, the State
  of the community of the people. This new State ultimately produces men who
  reject with fanaticism their own people so that in the end Foreign Powers
  find in them their allies. Such is the result of Marxist teaching....
  
  What we want is not a State of drones but a State which gives to everyone
  that to which on the basis of his own activity he has a right. He who refuses
  to do honest work shall not be a citizen of the State. The State is not a
  plantation where the interests of foreign capital are supreme. Capital is
  not the master of the State, but its servant. Therefore the State must not
  be brought into dependence on international loan capital. And if anyone believes
  that that cannot be avoided, then do not let him be surprised that no one
  is ready to give his life for this State. Further, that greatest injustice
  must be corrected which today still weighs heavily upon our people and upon
  almost all peoples. If in a State only he who does honest work is a citizen,
  then everyone has the right to demand that in his old age he shall be kept
  free from care and want. That would mean the realization of the greatest
  social achievement.
