
  . . . THE Republic was founded to be a milk-cow for its founders - for the
  whole parliamentary gang. It was never intended to be a State for the German
  people, but a feeding ground, as pleasant and as rich a feeding-ground as
  possible. There never was any thought of giving to the German people a free
  State: the object was to provide a mob of the lowest scoundrels with an obliging
  object for their exploitation. The fruit of the honest work of other folk
  has been stolen by those who themselves have never worked. And if we refuse
  to grasp the facts, the outside world knows better. The outside world despises
  the representatives of this November-Republic! Neither in society nor in
  the meetings of diplomats are they regarded as equals, much less as men of
  character.
  
  Think of Lloyd George - this man with the single fanatical idea - that England
  must be led to victory. There comes up to him one of the 'November men' of
  whom he knows: 'My people would have been defeated if your people by you
  had not been...' How will Lloyd George receive him? Surely with unspeakable
  contempt! For he knows what we can only guess, how in the war the millions
  of gold poured into Germany, how they began to take effect, how great
  associations of traitors were formed through foreign gold - through his gold.
  And now he sees face to face the man to whom before he paid out the Judas-wage.
  What do you think Lloyd George will do? He can only spit at the sight. Never
  can any one of the 'November criminals' represent Germany before the world!
  . . .
  
  The Republic, by God! is worthy of its fathers. For hardly was the first
  deed of shame committed when there followed the second - one dishonor after
  another! One can scarcely believe any longer that there was once a time when
  one could speak of the Germans as the first people in the world.
  
  The essential character of the November-Republic is to be seen in the comings
  and goings to London, to Spa, to Paris and Genoa. Subserviency towards the
  enemy, surrender of the human dignity of the German, pacifist cowardice,
  tolerance of every indignity, readiness to agree to everything until nothing
  more remains. This November Republic bore the stamp of the men who made it.
  The name 'November criminals' will cling to these folk throughout the
  centuries....
  
  How are States founded? Through the personality of brilliant leaders and
  through a people which deserves to have the crown of laurel bound about its
  brows. Compare with them the 'heroes' of this Republic! Shirkers, Deserters,
  and Pacifists: these are its founders and their heroic acts consisted in
  leaving in the lurch the soldiers at the front, in stopping reinforcements,
  in withholding from them munitions, while at home against old men and
  half-starved children they carried through a revolutionary coup d'etat. They
  have quite simply got together their November State by theft! In the face
  of the armies returning wearied from the front these thieves have still posed
  as the saviours of the Fatherland! They declared the Pacifist-Democratic
  Republic. On the other hand I ask: What can be the only meaning of loyalty
  to the State? The loyalty of heroes! This Revolution has dishonored the old
  heroes on whom the whole earth had looked with wonder; it allowed the scum
  of the streets to tear off their decorations and to hurl into the mire all
  that was sacred to the heroes of the front line. And how does the Republic
  honor now the new heroes? Schlageter? By warrants for his arrest.
  
  Pacifism as the idea of the State, international law instead of power - all
  means are good enough to unman the people. They hold India up to us as a
  model and what is called 'passive resistance.' True, they want to make an
  India of Germany, a folk of dreams which turns away its face from realities,
  in order that they can oppress it for all eternity, that they may span it
  body and soul to the yoke of slavery....
  
  In the economic sphere this Revolution has proved to be an immense misfortune.
  The districts which were most important for the feeding of our people were
  lost and districts which are the condition for the feeding of the nation
  have been treasonably alienated. And what did the Revolution not prophesy
  for us in the political sphere? One heard of the right of Self-Determination
  of Peoples, of the League of Nations, of Self-Government of the People. And
  what was the result? A World Peace, but a World Peace over a Germany which
  was but a field of corpses. Disarmament, but only the disarmament of Germany,
  with Germany looting its own resources. Self-determination, yes, but
  self-determination for every Negro tribe: and Germany does not count as a
  Negro tribe. League of Nations, yes: but a League of Nations which serves
  only as the guarantor for the fulfillment of the Peace Treaty, not for a
  better world order which is to come. And government by the people - for five
  years past no one has asked the people what it thinks of the act of November
  of the year 1918: at the head of the Reich there stands a President who is
  rejected by the overwhelming majority of the people and who has not been
  chosen by the people. Seventeen million Germans are in misery under foreign
  rule.
  
  Hardly ever in five years has so much been torn away from the German nation
  as in these years of the so-called successful Revolution. We have been rendered
  defenseless: we are without rights: we have become the pariahs of the world.
  What are our organs of government today but organs for executing the will
  of foreign tyrants? . . .
  
  We were given a Free State which never deserved the name of 'free.' Then
  they called it a 'People's State.' But think you that bankers can form a
  government which befits a 'People's State'?
  
  In fact the Revolution made three changes in our State: it internationalized
  the German State, the economic life of Germany, and the German people itself.
  Thereby Germany has been turned into a colony of the outside world. Those
  who were fed with the ideal of the International were in fact placed under
  the 'Diktat' of the International. They have their international State: today
  international finance is king....
  
  While the masses were still told lies about 'socialization,' the economic
  life of Germany was in fact socialized, not by the German people, but by
  the outside world....
  
  Through the internationalization of the nation itself in the end a people
  ceases to be master of its own fate: it becomes the puppet of alien forces.
  
  Is that, now, a People's Revolution? Is such a construction a People's State?
  No, it is the Jews' Paradise.
